Hello and welcome back.
so now we have index page listing all the questions,
we have ask question form to create a question
we have edit question form to edit existing question,
and we have delete button to delete particular
question.
Now let's go ahead and build our show question page which will show the individual question.
So here this would lead us to show question page or show the detail of the particular question.
Also instead of using this question id in this URL
we will be using questions slug to make our
URL prettier or make our URL  more SEO friendly.
So let's go ahead and build that.
All right
the first thing we're going to do is isolate
our work today in a new branch. Here
We'll do that by saying git check out -b lesson-11
And the next thing you need to do because as I said we will be using slug instead of id of
the question is to change the show
question route to receive slug instead of id.
So let me head over to other terminal and see the routes
by typing php artisan route list name questions.
So here the routes that we have.
And here we need a way to change this route parameter of questions dot show to receive slug instead
of ID.
In other hand we will keep the other routes as they are.
Do you have an idea?
So let's switch to our editor and open routes web
php
I think the best way to do that is to exclude the
show routes in our resource route like this
and here we need to define the show routes manually.
Route get questions and the route parameter let's
say slug then it will be handled by questions controller
show method and we need to give the same name to this route as
question dot
show like this one
Save that
And now if we see our routes again
we see the route parameter of the show question is no longer `question` but `slug`. And the route name is
same as before.
So by doing this we keep our question routes to receive ID but not for a show question route it will
receive the string or slug in this case and we'll be implementing route model binding to get the question
by slug. Let's go to app
providers. And open route service provider
here let's
Import the question model name space.
And here we can bind our custom route parameter by saying route bind
this method needs two arguments.
The first argument is our customer argument slug
and in second argument we can define
a closure or anonymous function
which receive one argument let's call it slug.
And inside here we can say get a question
where slug matches with the value that we pass in here.
And we need to call first to get a single record then we can assign it to a variable.
For example question
and after that we simply return the question if it's not empty.
otherwise we show 404 error page
or we can even simplify all of these like so
Alright, the next thing that we need to do is changing the question URL in our view.
So if you remember
in here we call question url
So we have encapsulated our question URL into URL accessor in our question
model.
So let's open the question model
go to get
url attribute
And here is simply change the second argument of route function helper from id to slug
save all changes
and let's see our show URL.
Now you can see here we have slug in our URL
and we still get a blank page.
This is great because that means our
route model binding is working.
Let's open question
controller and go to show method.
And here I tried to die dump for example question body like this.
And reload the page
ok we see our question body here.
Let's go back to our editor get rid of this line.
And before we return to show view here we need to increment the number of viewers right?
So here we can say question increment
views. This line is equivalent with this command
question
views equals question views plus 1 and then question save Luckily Laravel provide a better
way.
So we can simplify this just in one line.
All right after that
let's return the view
questions dot show and pass in the question object
now let's create a new view to show the individual question.
Let's open
create.blade.php
and save this file
as show
blade php
Here let's change the heading to heading one
and then question title
and here I'll keep the link to go to index page
and inside here
let's delete everything.
And we can show that question body like this question body or because the body of the question
is in markdown syntax
So let's call body_html instead.
So this will be a new accessor where encapsulates
the markdown to html conversion.
All right let's switch to a question model
and in here
let's define a new accessor public function get body html attribute
and in here we need to convert the markdown syntax to html by utilizing Parsedown library which
came by default since Laravel version 5.5. In prior version
we need to use external library like grahamcampbell markdown. But in Laravel version 5.5 or above using
this library is more than enough.
So return parsedown
double colons instance text and pass in the question body
save all changes
and reload page
all right here our question detail.
Let me see another question.
Okay great.
and I think that's enough for this lesson.
In the future lessons, we'll come back here and we'll be
adding some controls such as vote up, vote down, favourite the question and accept the question. And we will
also display all answers that related to the current question.
So now that have implemented the full set of CRUD functionality in our application. In the next lesson
we will be implement authorization so that the question can only be modified by the creator of the question.